#summary GL_ARB_half_float_pixel

== Contents ==

  * [GL_ARB_half_float_pixel#Dependencies Dependencies]
  * [GL_ARB_half_float_pixel#Overview Overview]
  * [GL_ARB_half_float_pixel#New_Tokens New Tokens]
  * [GL_ARB_half_float_pixel#Errors Errors]
  * [GL_ARB_half_float_pixel#New_State New State]
  * [GL_ARB_half_float_pixel#New_Implementation_Dependent_State New Implementation Dependent State]

== Dependencies ==

This extension is written against the OpenGL 2.0 Specification
but will work with the OpenGL 1.5 Specification.

Based on the [GL_NV_half_float] extension.

This extension interacts with [GL_ARB_color_buffer_float].


== Overview ==

This extension introduces a new data type for half-precision (16-bit)
floating-point quantities.  The floating-point format is very similar
to the IEEE single-precision floating-point standard, except that it
has only 5 exponent bits and 10 mantissa bits.  Half-precision floats
are smaller than full precision floats and provide a larger dynamic
range than similarly sized normalized scalar data types.

This extension allows applications to use half-precision floating-
point data when specifying pixel data.  It extends the existing image
specification commands to accept the new data type.

Floating-point data is clamped to [0, 1] at various places in the
GL unless clamping is disabled with the ARB_color_buffer_float
extension.


== New Tokens ==

Accepted by the <type> parameter of !DrawPixels, !ReadPixels,
TexImage1D, TexImage2D, TexImage3D, !GetTexImage, !TexSubImage1D,
TexSubImage2D, TexSubImage3D, !GetHistogram, !GetMinmax,
ConvolutionFilter1D, ConvolutionFilter2D, !GetConvolutionFilter,
SeparableFilter2D, !GetSeparableFilter, !ColorTable, !ColorSubTable,
and !GetColorTable:

||HALF_FLOAT_ARB                  ||              0x140B||


== Errors ==

None


== New State ==

None


== New Implementation Dependent State ==

None

