#summary GL_ARB_vertex_blend

== Contents ==

  * [GL_ARB_vertex_blend#Dependencies Dependencies]
  * [GL_ARB_vertex_blend#Overview Overview]
  * [GL_ARB_vertex_blend#New_Procedures_and_Functions New Procedures and Functions]
  * [GL_ARB_vertex_blend#New_Tokens New Tokens]
  * [GL_ARB_vertex_blend#Errors Errors]
  * [GL_ARB_vertex_blend#New_State New State]

== Dependencies ==

OpenGL 1.0 is required.

This extension is written against the OpenGL 1.2.1 Specification.


== Overview ==

This extension provides the ability to replace the single
modelview transformation with a set of n vertex units. (Where
n is constrained to an implementation defined maximum.) Each
unit has its own modelview transform matrix. For each unit,
there is a current weight associated with the vertex. When
this extension is enabled the vertices are transformed by
the modelview matrices of all of the enabled units. Afterward,
these results are scaled by the weights for the respective
units and then summed to create the eye-space vertex. A
similar procedure is followed for the normals, except they
are transformed by the inverse transpose of the modelview
matrices.

This extension is an orthoganalized version of functionality
already provided by other 3D graphics API's.



== New Procedures and Functions ==
{{{
void Weight{bsifd ubusui}vARB(int size, T* weights)

void WeightPointerARB(int size, enum type, sizei stride,
                      void *pointer)

void VertexBlendARB(int count)
}}}


== New Tokens ==

Accepted by the <value> parameters of !GetBooleanv, !GetIntegerv,
!GetFloatv, and !GetDoublev:

||MAX_VERTEX_UNITS_ARB        ||    0x86A4||
||ACTIVE_VERTEX_UNITS_ARB     ||    0x86A5||

Accepted by the <cap> parameters of Enable and Disable, by the
<value> parameter of !IsEnabled, !GetBooleanv, !GetIntegerv,
!GetFloatv, and !GetDoublev:

||WEIGHT_SUM_UNITY_ARB         ||   0x86A6||
||VERTEX_BLEND_ARB             ||   0x86A7||

Accepted by the <mode> parameter of !MatrixMode and by the
<value> parameter of !GetBooleanv, !GetIntegerv, !GetFloatv, and
!GetDoublev.

||MODELVIEW0_ARB                 ||0x1700 (alias to MODELVIEW)||
||MODELVIEW1_ARB                 ||0x850a||
||MODELVIEW2_ARB                 ||0x8722||
||MODELVIEW3_ARB                 ||0x8723||
||MODELVIEW4_ARB                 ||0x8724||
||MODELVIEW5_ARB                 ||0x8725||
||MODELVIEW6_ARB                 ||0x8726||
||MODELVIEW7_ARB                 ||0x8727||
||MODELVIEW8_ARB                 ||0x8728||
||MODELVIEW9_ARB                 ||0x8729||
||MODELVIEW10_ARB                ||0x872A||
||MODELVIEW11_ARB                ||0x872B||
||MODELVIEW12_ARB                ||0x872C||
||MODELVIEW13_ARB                ||0x872D||
||MODELVIEW14_ARB                ||0x872E||
||MODELVIEW15_ARB                ||0x872F||
||MODELVIEW16_ARB                ||0x8730||
||MODELVIEW17_ARB                ||0x8731||
||MODELVIEW18_ARB                ||0x8732||
||MODELVIEW19_ARB                ||0x8733||
||MODELVIEW20_ARB                ||0x8734||
||MODELVIEW21_ARB                ||0x8735||
||MODELVIEW22_ARB                ||0x8736||
||MODELVIEW23_ARB                ||0x8737||
||MODELVIEW24_ARB                ||0x8738||
||MODELVIEW25_ARB                ||0x8739||
||MODELVIEW26_ARB                ||0x873A||
||MODELVIEW27_ARB                ||0x873B||
||MODELVIEW28_ARB                ||0x873C||
||MODELVIEW29_ARB                ||0x873D||
||MODELVIEW30_ARB                ||0x873E||
||MODELVIEW31_ARB                ||0x873F||

Accepted by the <value> parameter of !GetBooleanv, !GetIntegerv,
!GetFloatv, and !GetDoublev:

||CURRENT_WEIGHT_ARB        ||      0x86A8||

Accepted by the <value> parameter of !GetBooleanv, !GetIntegerv,
!GetFloatv, and !GetDoublev:

||WEIGHT_ARRAY_TYPE_ARB       ||    0x86A9||
||WEIGHT_ARRAY_STRIDE_ARB     ||    0x86AA||
||WEIGHT_ARRAY_SIZE_ARB       ||    0x86AB||

Accepted by the <pname> parameter of !GetPointerv:
||WEIGHT_ARRAY_POINTER_ARB ||0x86AC||

Accepted by the <cap> parameters of !EnableClientState and
!DisableClientState, by the <value> parameter of !IsEnabled,
!GetBooleanv, !GetIntegerv, !GetFloatv, and !GetDoublev:

||WEIGHT_ARRAY_ARB      || 0x86AD||


== Errors ==

INVALID_VALUE is generated if the <size> parameter for
WeightvARB or WeightPointerARB is greater than
MAX_VERTEX_UNITS_ARB, or if WEIGHT_SUM_UNITY_ARB is enabled
and <size> is equal to MAX_VERTEX_UNITS_ARB

INVALID_VALUE is generated if the <count> parameter to
VertexBlendARB is greater than MAX_VERTEX_UNITS_ARB or
if <count> is equal to zero.


== New State ==

|| *Get Value* || *Get Command* || *Type* || *Initial Value* ||
||CURRENT_WEIGHT_ARB||!GetFloatv||Rn||n=0 - 1.0, n>0 - 0.0||
                                               
    
|| *Get Value* || *Get Command* || *Type* || *Initial Value* ||
||WEIGHT_ARRAY_ARB ||!IsEnabled||1*B|||| False||
||WEIGHT_ARRAY_TYPE_ARB ||!GetIntegerv||1*Z2||FLOAT||
||WEIGHT_ARRAY_SIZE_ARB ||!GetIntegerv||1*Z+||0||
||WEIGHT_ARRAY_STRIDE_ARB||!GetIntegerv||1*Z+|| 0||
||WEIGHT_ARRAY_POINTER_ARB ||!GetPointerv||1*Y|| 0||



|| *Get Value* || *Get Command* || *Type* || *Minimum Value* ||
||MODELVIEWn_ARB || !GetFloatv||1*32*xM4||Identity||
||ACTIVE_VERTEX_UNITS_ARB ||!GetIntegerv||Z+|| 1||
||VERTEX_BLEND_ARB || !IsEnabled||B||False||
                                                          


|| *Get Value* || *Get Command* || *Type* || *Minimum Value* ||
||MAX_VERTEX_UNITS_ARB ||!GetIntegerv||Z+ ||2||