#summary GL_ARB_texture_border_clamp

== Contents ==

  * [GL_ARB_texture_border_clamp#Dependencies Dependencies]
  * [GL_ARB_texture_border_clamp#Overview Overview]
  * [GL_ARB_texture_border_clamp#New_Procedures_and_Functions New Procedures and Functions]
  * [GL_ARB_texture_border_clamp#New_Tokens New Tokens]
  * [GL_ARB_texture_border_clamp#Errors Errors]

== Dependencies ==

OpenGL 1.0 is required.

This extension is written against the OpenGL 1.2.1 Specification.

This extension is based on and intended to replace
[GL_SGIS_texture_border_clamp].


== Overview ==

The base OpenGL provides clamping such that the texture coordinates are
limited to exactly the range [0,1].  When a texture coordinate is clamped
using this algorithm, the texture sampling filter straddles the edge of
the texture image, taking 1/2 its sample values from within the texture
image, and the other 1/2 from the texture border.  It is sometimes
desirable for a texture to be clamped to the border color, rather than to
an average of the border and edge colors.

This extension defines an additional texture clamping algorithm.
CLAMP_TO_BORDER_ARB clamps texture coordinates at all mipmap levels such
that NEAREST and LINEAR filters return only the color of the border
texels.


== New Procedures and Functions ==

None.


== New Tokens ==

Accepted by the <param> parameter of !TexParameteri and !TexParameterf, and
by the <params> parameter of !TexParameteriv and !TexParameterfv, when their
<pname> parameter is TEXTURE_WRAP_S, TEXTURE_WRAP_T, or TEXTURE_WRAP_R:

||CLAMP_TO_BORDER_ARB        ||                     0x812D||


== Errors ==

None.

== New State ==

|| *Get Value* || *Type* || *Get Command* || *Initial Value || *Description* ||
||TEXTURE_WRAP_S||3+ x Z4||!GetTexParameter||REPEAT||Texture wrap||
||TEXTURE_WRAP_T||3+ x Z4||!GetTexParameter||REPEAT||Texture wrap ||
||TEXTURE_WRAP_R||3+ x Z4||!GetTexParameter||REPEAT||Texture wrap||