#summary GL_ARB_point_sprite

== Contents ==

  * [GL_ARB_point_sprite#Dependencies Dependencies]
  * [GL_ARB_point_sprite#Overview Overview]
  * [GL_ARB_point_sprite#New_Procedures_and_Functions New Procedures and Functions]
  * [GL_ARB_point_sprite#New_Tokens New Tokens]
  * [GL_ARB_point_sprite#Errors Errors]
  * [GL_ARB_point_sprite#New_State New State]

== Dependencies ==

Written based on the wording of the OpenGL 1.4 specification.

[GL_NV_point_sprite] affects the definition of this extension.


== Overview ==

Applications such as particle systems have tended to use OpenGL quads
rather than points to render their geometry, since they would like
to use a custom-drawn texture for each particle, rather than the
traditional OpenGL round antialiased points, and each fragment in
a point has the same texture coordinates as every other fragment.

Unfortunately, specifying the geometry for these quads can be
expensive, since it quadruples the amount of geometry required, and
may also require the application to do extra processing to compute
the location of each vertex.

The purpose of this extension is to allow such applications to use
points rather than quads.  When GL_POINT_SPRITE_ARB is enabled,
the state of point antialiasing is ignored.  For each texture unit,
the app can then specify whether to replace the existing texture
coordinates with point sprite texture coordinates, which are
interpolated across the point.


== New Procedures and Functions ==

None


== New Tokens ==

Accepted by the <cap> parameter of Enable, Disable, and !IsEnabled, by
the <pname> parameter of !GetBooleanv, !GetIntegerv, !GetFloatv, and
!GetDoublev, and by the <target> parameter of !TexEnvi, !TexEnviv,
!TexEnvf, !TexEnvfv, !GetTexEnviv, and !GetTexEnvfv:

||POINT_SPRITE_ARB      ||   0x8861||

When the <target> parameter of !TexEnvf, !TexEnvfv, !TexEnvi, !TexEnviv,
!GetTexEnvfv, or !GetTexEnviv is POINT_SPRITE_ARB, then the value of
<pname> may be:

||COORD_REPLACE_ARB   ||0x8862||

When the <target> and <pname> parameters of !TexEnvf, !TexEnvfv,
!TexEnvi, or !TexEnviv are POINT_SPRITE_ARB and COORD_REPLACE_ARB
respectively, then the value of <param> or the value pointed to by
<params> may be:

||FALSE||
||TRUE||



== Errors ==

None.


== New State ==
|| *Get Value* || *Type* || *Get Command* || *Initial Value* || *Description* ||
||POINT_SPRITE_ARB || B ||   !IsEnabled  ||  False ||point sprite enable     ||

|| *Get Value* || *Type* || *Get Command* || *Initial Value* || *Description* ||
||COORD_REPLACE_ARB || 2`*` x B ||!GetTexEnviv || False|| coordinate replacement enable||


