#summary GL_ARB_color_buffer_float

== Contents ==

  * [GL_ARB_color_buffer_float#Dependencies Dependencies]
  * [GL_ARB_color_buffer_float#Overview Overview]
  * [GL_ARB_color_buffer_float#New_Procedures_and_Functions New Procedures and Functions]
  * [GL_ARB_color_buffer_float#New_Tokens New Tokens]
  * [GL_ARB_color_buffer_float#Errors Errors]
  * [GL_ARB_color_buffer_float#New_Implementation_Dependent_State New Implementation Dependent State]

== Dependencies ==

This extension is written against the OpenGL 2.0 Specification
but will work with the OpenGL 1.5 Specification.

[WGL_ARB_pixel_format] is required.

This extension interacts with [GL_ARB_fragment_program].

This extension interacts with [GL_ARB_fragment_shader].

This extension interacts with [GL_NV_float_buffer].

This extension interacts with [GL_ATI_pixel_format_float].


== Overview ==

The standard OpenGL pipeline is based on a fixed-point pipeline.
While color components are nominally floating-point values in the
pipeline, components are frequently clamped to the range [0,1] to
accomodate the fixed-point color buffer representation and allow
for fixed-point computational hardware.

This extension adds pixel formats or visuals with floating-point
RGBA color components and controls for clamping of color
components within the pipeline.

For a floating-point RGBA pixel format, the size of each float
components is specified using the same attributes that are used
for defining the size of fixed-point components.  32-bit
floating-point components are in the standard IEEE float format.
16-bit floating-point components have 1 sign bit, 5 exponent bits,
and 10 mantissa bits.

Clamping control provides a way to disable certain color clamps
and allow programs, and the fixed-function pipeline, to deal in
unclamped colors.  There are controls to modify clamping of vertex
colors, clamping of fragment colors throughout the pipeline, and
for pixel return data.

The default state for fragment clamping is "FIXED_ONLY", which
has the behavior of clamping colors for fixed-point color buffers
and not clamping colors for floating-pont color buffers.

Vertex colors are clamped by default.



== New Procedures and Functions ==

void ClampColorARB(enum target, enum clamp);


== New Tokens ==

Accepted by the <pname> parameters of GetBooleanv, GetIntegerv,
GetFloatv, and GetDoublev:

RGBA_FLOAT_MODE_ARB                     0x8820

Accepted by the <target> parameter of ClampColorARB and the <pname>
parameter of GetBooleanv, GetIntegerv, GetFloatv, and GetDoublev.

CLAMP_VERTEX_COLOR_ARB                  0x891A
CLAMP_FRAGMENT_COLOR_ARB                0x891B
CLAMP_READ_COLOR_ARB                    0x891C

Accepted by the <clamp> parameter of ClampColorARB.

FIXED_ONLY_ARB                          0x891D
FALSE
TRUE

Accepted as a value in the <piAttribIList> and <pfAttribFList>
parameter arrays of wglChoosePixelFormatARB, and returned in the
<piValues> parameter array of wglGetPixelFormatAttribivARB, and the
<pfValues> parameter array of wglGetPixelFormatAttribfvARB:

WGL_TYPE_RGBA_FLOAT_ARB                 0x21A0

Accepted as values of the <render_type> arguments in the
glXCreateNewContext and glXCreateContext functions

GLX_RGBA_FLOAT_TYPE                     0x20B9

Accepted as a bit set in the GLX_RENDER_TYPE variable

GLX_RGBA_FLOAT_BIT                      0x00000004


== Errors ==

None


== New Implementation Dependent State ==

None