#summary GL_ARB_shadow

== Contents ==

  * [GL_ARB_shadow#Dependencies Dependencies]
  * [GL_ARB_shadow#Overview Overview]
  * [GL_ARB_shadow#New_Procedures_and_Functions New Procedures and Functions]
  * [GL_ARB_shadow#New_Tokens New Tokens]
  * [GL_ARB_shadow#Errors Errors]
  * [GL_ARB_shadow#New_State New State]
  * [GL_ARB_shadow#New_Implementation_Dependent_State New Implementation Dependent State]

== Dependencies ==

OpenGL 1.1 is required.

[GL_ARB_depth_texture] is required.

This extension is written against the OpenGL 1.3 Specification.


== Overview ==

This extension clarifies the [GL_SGIX_shadow] extension.

This extension supports comparing the texture R coordinate to a depth
texture value in order to produce a boolean texture value.  This can
be used to implement shadow maps.

The extension is written in generic terms such that other texture
comparison modes can be accommodated in the future.


== New Procedures and Functions ==

None


== New Tokens ==

Accepted by the <pname> parameter of TexParameterf, TexParameteri,
TexParameterfv, TexParameteriv, GetTexParameterfv, and GetTexParameteriv:

||TEXTURE_COMPARE_MODE_ARB  ||  0x884C||
||TEXTURE_COMPARE_FUNC_ARB ||  0x884D||

Accepted by the <param> parameter of TexParameterf, TexParameteri,
TexParameterfv, and TexParameteriv when the <pname> parameter is
TEXTURE_COMPARE_MODE_ARB:

||COMPARE_R_TO_TEXTURE_ARB  ||  0x884E||


== Errors ==

INVALID_ENUM is generated if TexParameter[if] parameter <pname>
is TEXTURE_COMPARE_MODE_ARB and parameter <param> is not NONE or
COMPARE_R_TO_TEXTURE.

INVALID_ENUM is generated if TexParameter[if] parameter <pname>
is TEXTURE_COMPARE_FUNC_ARB and parameter <param> is not LEQUAL or
GEQUAL.


== New State ==

In table 6.16, Texture Objects, p. 224, add the following:

|| *Get Value* || *Type* || *Get Command* || *Initial Value* || *Description* ||
||TEXTURE_COMPARE_MODE_ARB ||Z_2|| `GetTexParameter[if]v` ||NONE|| compare mode||
||TEXTURE_COMPARE_FUNC_ARB || Z_2 ||`GetTexParameter[if]v` ||LEQUAL ||compare func||


== New Implementation Dependent State ==

None

