#summary GL_ARB_shadow_ambient

== Contents ==

  * [GL_ARB_shadow_ambient#Dependencies Dependencies]
  * [GL_ARB_shadow_ambient#Overview Overview]
  * [GL_ARB_shadow_ambient#New_Procedures_and_Functions New Procedures and Functions]
  * [GL_ARB_shadow_ambient#New_Tokens New Tokens]
  * [GL_ARB_shadow_ambient#Errors Errors]
  * [GL_ARB_shadow_ambient#New_State New State]
  * [GL_ARB_shadow_ambient#New_Implementation_Dependent_State New Implementation Dependent State]

== Dependencies ==

OpenGL 1.1 is required.

[GL_ARB_shadow] is required.

[GL_ARB_depth_texture] is required.

This extension is written against the OpenGL 1.3 Specification.


== Overview ==

This is based on the [GL_SGIX_shadow_ambient] extension and is layered
upon the [GL_ARB_shadow] extension.

Basically, this extension allows the user to specify the texture
value to use when the texture compare function fails.  Normally
this value is zero.  By allowing an arbitrary value we can get
functionality which otherwise requires an advanced texture
combine extension (such as [GL_NV_register_combiners]) and multiple
texture units.


== New Procedures and Functions ==

None


== New Tokens ==

Accepted by the <pname> parameter of !TexParameterf, !TexParameteri,
!TexParameterfv, !TexParameteriv, !GetTexParameterfv, and !GetTexParameteriv:

||TEXTURE_COMPARE_FAIL_VALUE_ARB|| 0x80BF  (same as SHADOW_AMBIENT_SGIX)||


== Errors ==

None.


== New State ==

|| *Get Value*  || *Type* || *Get Command* || *Init Val* || *Description* ||
||TEXTURE_COMPARE_FAIL_VALUE_ARB||R[0,1]||!GetTexParameter`[`if`]`v||   0.0 ||texture compare fail value||


== New Implementation Dependent State ==

None

