#summary GL_ARB_draw_buffers

== Contents ==

  * [GL_ARB_draw_buffers#Dependencies Dependencies]
  * [GL_ARB_draw_buffers#Overview Overview]
  * [GL_ARB_draw_buffers#New_Procedures_and_Functions New Procedures and Functions]
  * [GL_ARB_draw_buffers#New_Tokens New Tokens]
  * [GL_ARB_draw_buffers#Errors Errors]
  * [GL_ARB_draw_buffers#New_Implementation_Dependent_State New Implementation Dependent State]

== Dependencies ==

The extension is written against the OpenGL 1.5 Specification.

OpenGL 1.3 is required.

[GL_ARB_fragment_program] affects the definition of this extension.

[GL_ARB_fragment_shader] affects the definition of this extension.



== Overview ==

This extension extends [GL_ARB_fragment_program] and [GL_ARB_fragment_shader]
to allow multiple output colors, and provides a mechanism for
directing those outputs to multiple color buffers.



== New Procedures and Functions ==
{{{
void DrawBuffersARB(sizei n, const enum *bufs);
}}}


== New Tokens ==

Accepted by the <pname> parameters of GetIntegerv, GetFloatv,
and GetDoublev:

||MAX_DRAW_BUFFERS_ARB        ||            0x8824||
||DRAW_BUFFER0_ARB            ||            0x8825||
||DRAW_BUFFER1_ARB            ||            0x8826||
||DRAW_BUFFER2_ARB            ||            0x8827||
||DRAW_BUFFER3_ARB            ||            0x8828||
||DRAW_BUFFER4_ARB            ||            0x8829||
||DRAW_BUFFER5_ARB             ||           0x882A||
||DRAW_BUFFER6_ARB            ||            0x882B||
||DRAW_BUFFER7_ARB            ||            0x882C||
||DRAW_BUFFER8_ARB             ||           0x882D||
||DRAW_BUFFER9_ARB            ||            0x882E||
||DRAW_BUFFER10_ARB           ||            0x882F||
||DRAW_BUFFER11_ARB            ||           0x8830||
||DRAW_BUFFER12_ARB           ||            0x8831||
||DRAW_BUFFER13_ARB            ||           0x8832||
||DRAW_BUFFER14_ARB            ||           0x8833||
||DRAW_BUFFER15_ARB             ||          0x8834||



== Errors ==

The error INVALID_OPERATION is generated by DrawBuffersARB if a
color buffer not currently allocated to the GL context is specified.

The error INVALID_OPERATION is generated by DrawBuffersARB if <n>
is greater than the state MAX_DRAW_BUFFERS_ARB.

The error INVALID_OPERATION is generated by DrawBuffersARB if value
in <bufs> does not correspond to one of the allowed buffers.

The error INVALID_OPERATION is generated by DrawBuffersARB if a draw
buffer other then NONE is specified more then once in <bufs>.

== New Implementation Dependent State ==

|| *Get Value* || *Type* || *Get Command* || *Minimum Value* || *Description* ||
||MAX_DRAW_BUFFERS_ARB || Z+ || GetIntegerv || 1 ||   Maximum number of active draw buffers ||



