#summary GL_EXT_texture_lod_bias

== Contents ==

  * [GL_EXT_texture_lod_bias#Dependencies Dependencies]
  * [GL_EXT_texture_lod_bias#Overview Overview]
  * [GL_EXT_texture_lod_bias#New_Procedures_and_Functions New Procedures and Functions]
  * [GL_EXT_texture_lod_bias#New_Tokens New Tokens]
  * [GL_EXT_texture_lod_bias#Errors Errors]
  * [GL_EXT_texture_lod_bias#New_State New State]

== Dependencies ==

Written based on the wording of the OpenGL 1.2 specification.

Affects [GL_ARB_multitexture].


== Overview ==

OpenGL computes a texture level-of-detail parameter, called lambda
in the GL specification, that determines which mipmap levels and
their relative mipmap weights for use in mipmapped texture filtering.

This extension provides a means to bias the lambda computation
by a constant (signed) value.  This bias can provide a way to blur
or pseudo-sharpen OpenGL's standard texture filtering.

This blurring or pseudo-sharpening may be useful for special effects
(such as depth-of-field effects) or image processing techniques
(where the mipmap levels act as pre-downsampled image versions).
On some implementations, increasing the texture lod bias may improve
texture filtering performance (at the cost of texture bluriness).

The extension mimics functionality found in Direct3D.


== New Procedures and Functions ==

None


== New Tokens ==

Accepted by the <target> parameters of !GetTexEnvfv, !GetTexEnviv,
!TexEnvi, !TexEnvf, !TexEnviv, and !TexEnvfv:

||TEXTURE_FILTER_CONTROL_EXT     ||     0x8500||

When the <target> parameter of !GetTexEnvfv, !GetTexEnviv, !TexEnvi,
!TexEnvf, !TexEnviv, and !TexEnvfv is TEXTURE_FILTER_CONTROL_EXT, then
the value of <pname> may be:

||TEXTURE_LOD_BIAS_EXT   || 0x8501||

Accepted by the <pname> parameters of !GetBooleanv, !GetIntegerv,
!GetFloatv, and !GetDoublev:

||MAX_TEXTURE_LOD_BIAS_EXT || 0x84FD||


== Errors ==

INVALID_ENUM is generated when TexEnv is called with a <pname> of
TEXTURE_FILTER_CONTROL_EXT and the value of <param> or what is pointed to
by <params> is not TEXTURE_LOD_BIAS_EXT.


== New State ==

