#summary GL_EXT_packed_pixels

== Contents ==

  * [GL_EXT_packed_pixels#Dependencies Dependencies]
  * [GL_EXT_packed_pixels#Overview Overview]
  * [GL_EXT_packed_pixels#New_Procedures_and_Functions New Procedures and Functions]
  * [GL_EXT_packed_pixels#New_Tokens New Tokens]
  * [GL_EXT_packed_pixels#Errors Errors]
  * [GL_EXT_packed_pixels#New_Implementation_Dependent_State New Implementation Dependent State]

== Dependencies ==

[GL_EXT_abgr] affects the definition of this extension

[GL_EXT_texture3D] affects the definition of this extension

[GL_EXT_subtexture] affects the definition of this extension

[GL_EXT_histogram] affects the definition of this extension

[GL_EXT_convolution] affects the definition of this extension

[GL_SGI_color_table] affects the definition of this extension

[GL_SGIS_texture4D] affects the definition of this extension

[GL_EXT_cmyka] affects the definition of this extension


== Overview ==

This extension provides support for packed pixels in host memory.  A
packed pixel is represented entirely by one unsigned byte, one
unsigned short, or one unsigned integer.  The fields with the packed
pixel are not proper machine types, but the pixel as a whole is.  Thus
the pixel storage modes, including PACK_SKIP_PIXELS, PACK_ROW_LENGTH,
PACK_SKIP_ROWS, PACK_IMAGE_HEIGHT_EXT, PACK_SKIP_IMAGES_EXT,
PACK_SWAP_BYTES, PACK_ALIGNMENT, and their unpacking counterparts all
work correctly with packed pixels.


== New Procedures and Functions ==

None


== New Tokens ==

Accepted by the <type> parameter of DrawPixels, ReadPixels, TexImage1D,
TexImage2D, GetTexImage, TexImage3DEXT, TexSubImage1DEXT,
TexSubImage2DEXT, TexSubImage3DEXT, GetHistogramEXT, GetMinmaxEXT,
ConvolutionFilter1DEXT, ConvolutionFilter2DEXT, ConvolutionFilter3DEXT,
GetConvolutionFilterEXT, SeparableFilter2DEXT, SeparableFilter3DEXT,
GetSeparableFilterEXT, ColorTableSGI, GetColorTableSGI, TexImage4DSGIS,
and TexSubImage4DSGIS:

||UNSIGNED_BYTE_3_3_2_EXT      ||   0x8032||
||UNSIGNED_SHORT_4_4_4_4_EXT   ||   0x8033||
||UNSIGNED_SHORT_5_5_5_1_EXT    ||  0x8034||
||UNSIGNED_INT_8_8_8_8_EXT     ||   0x8035||
||UNSIGNED_INT_10_10_10_2_EXT  ||   0x8036||


== Errors ==

For the purpose of this enumeration of errors, GenericPixelFunction
represents any OpenGL function that accepts or returns pixel data, using
parameters <type> and <format> to define the type and format of that
data.  Currently these functions are DrawPixels, ReadPixels, TexImage1D,
TexImage2D, GetTexImage, TexImage3DEXT, TexSubImage1DEXT,
TexSubImage2DEXT, TexSubImage3DEXT, GetHistogramEXT, GetMinmaxEXT,
ConvolutionFilter1DEXT, ConvolutionFilter2DEXT, ConvolutionFilter3DEXT,
GetConvolutionFilterEXT, SeparableFilter2DEXT, SeparableFilter3DEXT,
GetSeparableFilterEXT, ColorTableSGI, GetColorTableSGI, TexImage4DSGIS,
and TexSubImage4DSGIS.

INVALID_OPERATION is generated by GenericPixelFunction if its <type>
parameter is UNSIGNED_BYTE_3_3_2_EXT and its <format> parameter does not
specify three components.  Currently the only 3-component format is RGB.

INVALID_OPERATION is generated by GenericPixelFunction if its <type>
parameter is UNSIGNED_SHORT_4_4_4_4_EXT, UNSIGNED_SHORT_5_5_5_1_EXT,
UNSIGNED_INT_8_8_8_8_EXT, or UNSIGNED_INT_10_10_10_2_EXT and its
<format> parameter does not specify four components.  Currently the only
4-component formats are RGBA, ABGR_EXT, and CMYK_EXT.


== New Implementation Dependent State ==

None
