#summary GL_EXT_blend_equation_separate

== Contents ==

  * [GL_EXT_blend_equation_separate#Dependencies Dependencies]
  * [GL_EXT_blend_equation_separate#Overview Overview]
  * [GL_EXT_blend_equation_separate#New_Procedures_and_Functions New Procedures and Functions]
  * [GL_EXT_blend_equation_separate#New_Tokens New Tokens]
  * [GL_EXT_blend_equation_separate#Errors Errors]
  * [GL_EXT_blend_equation_separate#New_State New State]
  * [GL_EXT_blend_equation_separate#New_Implementation_Dependent_State New Implementation Dependent State]

== Dependencies ==

Written based on the wording of the OpenGL 1.5 specification.

OpenGL 1.4 (or [GL_ARB_imaging], or [GL_EXT_blend_minmax] and/or
[GL_EXT_blend_subtract]) is required for blend equation support.

[GL_EXT_blend_func_separate] is presumed but not required.

[GL_EXT_blend_logic_op] interacts with this extension.


== Overview ==

[GL_EXT_blend_func_separate] introduced separate RGB and alpha blend
factors.  [GL_EXT_blend_minmax] introduced a distinct blend equation for
combining source and destination blend terms.  ([GL_EXT_blend_subtract] &
[GL_EXT_blend_logic_op] added other blend equation modes.)  OpenGL 1.4
integrated both functionalities into the core standard.

While there are separate blend functions for the RGB and alpha blend
factors, OpenGL 1.4 provides a single blend equation that applies
to both RGB and alpha portions of blending.

This extension provides a separate blend equation for RGB and alpha
to match the generality available for blend factors.


== New Procedures and Functions ==
{{{
void BlendEquationSeparateEXT(enum modeRGB,
                              enum modeAlpha);
}}}

== New Tokens ==

Accepted by the <pname> parameter of !GetBooleanv, !GetIntegerv,
!GetFloatv, and !GetDoublev:

||BLEND_EQUATION_RGB_EXT       ||      0x8009 (same as BLEND_EQUATION)||
||BLEND_EQUATION_ALPHA_EXT      ||     0x883D||


== Errors ==

INVALID_ENUM is generated if either the modeRGB or modeAlpha
parameter of BlendEquationSeparateEXT is not one of FUNC_ADD,
FUNC_SUBTRACT, FUNC_REVERSE_SUBTRACT, MAX, or MIN.

INVALID_OPERATION is generated if BlendEquationSeparateEXT
is executed between the execution of Begin and the corresponding
execution of End.


== New State ==

|| *Get Value* || *Get Command* || *Type* || *Initial Value* ||
||BLEND_EQUATION_RGB_EXT||!GetIntegerv||Z||FUNC_ADD||
||BLEND_EQUATION_ALPHA_EXT||!GetIntegerv||Z ||FUNC_ADD||


== New Implementation Dependent State ==

None

