#summary GL_SGIS_texture_filter4

== Contents ==

  * [GL_SGIS_texture_filter4#Dependencies Dependencies]
  * [GL_SGIS_texture_filter4#Overview Overview]
  * [GL_SGIS_texture_filter4#New_Procedures_and_Functions New Procedures and Functions]
  * [GL_SGIS_texture_filter4#New_Tokens New Tokens]
  * [GL_SGIS_texture_filter4#Errors Errors]
  * [GL_SGIS_texture_filter4#New_Implementation_Dependent_State New Implementation Dependent State]

== Dependencies ==

None


== Overview ==

This extension allows 1D and 2D textures to be filtered using an
application-defined, four sample per dimension filter.  (In addition to
the NEAREST and LINEAR filters defined in the original GL Specification.)
Such filtering results in higher image quality.  It is defined only
for non-mipmapped filters.  The filter that is specified must be
symmetric and separable (in the 2D case).


== New Procedures and Functions ==
{{{
void TexFilterFuncSGIS(enum target,
                       enum filter,
                       sizei n,
                       const float* weights);

void GetTexFilterFuncSGIS(enum target,
                          enum filter,
                          float* weights);
}}}

== New Tokens ==

Accepted by the <param> parameter of TexParameteri and TexParameterf,
and by the <params> parameter of TexParameteriv and TexParameterfv, when
their <pname> parameter is TEXTURE_MIN_FILTER or TEXTURE_MAG_FILTER.
Also accepted by the <filter> parameters of TexFilterFuncSGIS and
GetTexFilterFuncSGIS:

||FILTER4_SGIS||

Accepted by the <pname> parameter of GetTexParameteriv and
GetTexParameterfv, when the <target> parameter is TEXTURE_1D or
TEXTURE_2D:

||TEXTURE_FILTER4_SIZE_SGIS||


== Errors ==

INVALID_ENUM is generated if TexFilterFuncSGIS or
GetTexFilterFuncSGIS parameter <target> is not TEXTURE_1D or
TEXTURE_2D.

INVALID_ENUM is generated if TexFilterFuncSGIS or
GetTexFilterFuncSGIS parameter <filter> is not FILTER4_SGIS.

INVALID_VALUE is generated if TexFilterFuncSGIS parameter <n> does
not equal 2**m + 1 for some nonnegative integer value of m.

INVALID_ENUM is generated if GetTexParameteriv or GetTexParameterfv
parameter <pname> is TEXTURE_FILTER4_SIZE_SGIS and parameter
<target> is not TEXTURE_1D or TEXTURE_2D.

INVALID_OPERATION is generated if TexFilterFuncSGIS or
GetTexFilterFuncSGIS is executed between execution of Begin and the
corresponding execution of End.


== New Implementation Dependent State ==

|| *Get Value* || *Get Command* || *Type* || *Minimum Value* ||
||TEXTURE_FILTER4_SIZE_SGIS || GetTexParameterfv || R || 17 ||
