#summary WGL_ARB_buffer_region

== Contents ==

  * [WGL_ARB_buffer_region#Dependencies Dependencies]
  * [WGL_ARB_buffer_region#Overview Overview]
  * [WGL_ARB_buffer_region#New_Procedures_and_Functions New Procedures and Functions]
  * [WGL_ARB_buffer_region#New_Tokens New Tokens]
  * [WGL_ARB_buffer_region#Errors Errors]
  * [WGL_ARB_buffer_region#New_State New State]
  * [WGL_ARB_buffer_region#New_Implementation_Dependent_State New Implementation Dependent State]

== Dependencies ==

The extension is written against the OpenGL 1.2.1 Specification
although it should work on any previous OpenGL specification.

The [WGL_EXT_extensions_string] extension is required.


== Overview ==

The buffer region extension is a mechanism that allows an area of
an OpenGL window to be saved in off-screen memory for quick
restores.  The off-screen memory can either be frame buffer memory
or system memory, although frame buffer memory might offer optimal
performance.

A buffer region can be created for the front color, back color,
depth, and/or stencil buffer.  Multiple buffer regions for the same
buffer type can exist.


== New Procedures and Functions ==
{{{
HANDLE wglCreateBufferRegionARB(HDC hDC,
                                int iLayerPlane,
                                UINT uType)

VOID wglDeleteBufferRegionARB(HANDLE hRegion)

BOOL wglSaveBufferRegionARB(HANDLE hRegion,
                            int x,
                            int y,
                            int width,
                            int height)

BOOL wglRestoreBufferRegionARB(HANDLE hRegion,
                               int x,
                               int y,
                               int width,
                               int height,
                               int xSrc,
                               int ySrc)
}}}


== New Tokens ==

Accepted by the <uType> parameter of wglCreateBufferRegionARB is the
bitwise OR of any of the following values:

||WGL_FRONT_COLOR_BUFFER_BIT_ARB     ||     0x00000001||
||WGL_BACK_COLOR_BUFFER_BIT_ARB      ||     0x00000002||
||WGL_DEPTH_BUFFER_BIT_ARB           ||     0x00000004||
||WGL_STENCIL_BUFFER_BIT_ARB         ||     0x00000008||



== Errors ==

ERROR_NO_SYSTEM_RESOURCES is generated if memory cannot be
allocated for storing the saved data.

ERROR_INVALID_HANDLE is generated if <hRegion> is not a valid
handle that was previously returned by wglCreateBufferRegionARB.

ERROR_INVALID_DATA is generated if <uType> is zero or includes
an undefined bit.

ERROR_INVALID_DATA is generated if <width> or <height> is negative.


== New State ==

None


== New Implementation Dependent State ==

None

